Character Mentions: Alfrir, Algord, Baulnir, Elkfriða, Fraldr, Gorðr, Haldigr I and II, Iðunn, Ingwaz, Júlfr, Kolr, Lalfrel, Ljorn, Mifrún, Njall and his family (includes Þone and Meyrúna), Ulfnir, Yngvild, Þrein, two unidentified bandits, two unidentified draugar, two unidentified centaurs


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[Sometime before 820]
Haldigr I leads an exploration team south, heading towards the Kingdom of Taribia.


[About AD 820]
Haldigr I is killed between Centruma and Taribia. The explorers arrived at Taribia, saying he was killed by daevas.


[About AD 840]
Haldigr II builds their house on a hill. To the present day (973 AD), it is still inhabited by the same bloodline (Algord's family).


[About AD 880]
Júlfr and Iðunn participated in the Invasion of Bravosh. They are both slain during the invasion.


[About AD 915]
Algord and Mifrún are born.


[About AD 935]
At 20, Algord becomes a soldier and participates in a military campaign to wipe out bandit camps, taking his wood axe and shield with him. During this time, he finds two bronze rings, a spear, and a leather helmet. He returns home a year later.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[Year 946]
Ulfnir is born.


[Year 947]
Ljorn is born.


[Year 950]
Yngvild is born.


[Year 952]
Alfrir is born.


[Year 958]
(May)
While wandering in the forest, Fraldr, Gorðr, and Lalfrel see the draugr Haldigr I walking far away. They weren't able to see who it was, or know that it was Haldigr I. They quickly escape, saying that they saw a "cloaked man who was evil". They returned without a scratch, and told the rest of the family.

Two days later, Ljorn saw the same draugr just outside the forest during nighttime. He hid back into his home when Haldigr I turned to look at the village, thinking the draugr saw him. Because of this, he has been paranoid whenever he's inside a forest, especially boreal ones.


[Year 963]
(April)
Algord takes Alfrir and Ljorn to show them how to cut a tree down. Ljown also takes the role of a woodcutter to cut firewood.

(March)
Ljorn starts to practice fighting with an axe and round shield, instructed by Algord.

(June)
Yngvild decided to go alone into the forest and returned without a scratch with two mushrooms in her hand, wanting them to be cooked in the next stew. One turned out to be an ekraldys toadstool, a poisonous mushroom, when her mother Mifrún looked at it before actually putting it into the pot. The other was a normal non-poisonous brown mushroom.

(August)
While in the woods cutting a tree down, Alfrir and Ulfnir were almost crushed by a tree, but it was stopped by another tree. During this incident, Ulfnir was grazed by a falling fir cone. This resulted in a light, faint scar on his left brow ridge. Because of this, they were more cautious when felling trees.


[Year 967]
(July)
Ljorn and Alfrir go on their first adventure to explore the ruins of an ancient castle that had been spread by rumor. Ljorn had a spear and Alfrir had an axe. This castle ruin is located in the southwest peninsula of Herthland. Baulnir and Elkfriða go with them. During the exploration, they find a couple of draugar that attack the party while inside. After killing those two, Ljorn discovers an old scroll and keeps it. Alfrir finds a spear and a bronze ring, which he later gifted to Algord, their father.

During this time, the party saw an untouched sword lying somewhere within the castle walls, but before they could collect it, Elkfriða touched a vase and accidentally woke the draugr Ingwaz.

- Fight Scene -
Ingwaz abruptly opened its eyes and stood up from its resting place. It gripped its atgeir and strode towards the party. They could see a caved-in dent on the draugr's helmet, likely the killing blow. Alfrir attacked Ingwaz first, but it deflected his blow and then slashed his left leg. Then Ljorn came in, but it nearly broke his shield with one blow, causing him to fall backward.

Ingwaz then stepped over Ljorn and attempted to strike him dead, but he used the boss of his shield to redirect its blow to his left. Ljorn scrambled away, recovering his dropped spear, and then helped Alfrir away from the fight. Baulnir stepped in and slashed the draugr from the face down to its stomach, but it didn't feel a thing. He tried again and cleaved into Ingwaz's arm, and a bone cracked. But it just shook it off, moving as if its arm didn't break. Baulnir's sword swung over his head and back at the draugr for its neck, but the draugr stopped it with its atgeir.

Baulnir tried again, his sword coming from the bottom upwards. Ingwaz used the end of its atgeir to deflect Baulnir's sword and hooked his shield off his hand. But before Ingwaz could hew Baulnir, Ljorn readied himself and tried to cut it across the neck with a swing of his spear. But because he hesitated, and Ingwaz was fast enough to see it coming, it turned into a billow of mist before the spear connected with its neck. Alfrir could walk, and they all fled, leaving the mysterious sword and vase behind.
---------------

And as they fled, they were soon met by a dormant gvarth. They successfully snuck by it and left the castle ruins. This is another reason why Ljorn is paranoid of forests.

When the two pass by Þuryngard Ring Fortress, Ljorn finds out the scroll is written with wisdom for seiðr. Because he doesn't know seiðr and that it's also traditionally feminine magic, he exchanged it for a stave and potion grimoire while they were wandering in the capital's marketplace.

(August)
When they returned, Ljorn commissioned Kolr to make him a sword. Alfrir also commissioned something for himself, which was a Gjermundbu helmet. After the return, Alfrir was determined to never be hit in the leg again, so from that on, he and Ulfnir began to spar with wooden poles as spears.


[Year 971]
(July)
After transporting two barrels of fish from Lismerlaf to Argánlaf, Þrein (father of Baulnir and Elkfriða) offered Alfrir to protect his karve for a week and watch over it at night and will pay him three coppers for every night watched (food is provided). Alfrir agrees and goes with him to guard over the karve.

During his guarding, Alfrir caught two bandits skulking around looking to steal something. Alfrir attempted to chase after the bandits, but they disappeared into the forest. Þrein heard of this and decided to give five coppers instead of three after seeing the footprints of bare feet near the coast where his boat was.

After a week, Alfrir returns home with the coppers Þrein promised.

(August)
Ljorn lost his skill with axes in favor of his new sword.


[Year 972]
(September)
A group of centaurs from Vatakond raided Argánlaf. Ljorn was at the local markets when this happened. As soon as he heard the war horns blaring from the watchtowers and the ringing of the community hall's bell, he turned and saw the centaur warriors galloping towards the village. He ran back to his home and alerted them all of the attack. His exact words were: "Alfrir! Foðr! Þrast þinn vapanar í nar! Það un tolaðingr!"

Ljorn and Alfrir left the house, while the rest (except for Ulfnir and Algord) went to the community hall for shelter. Ulfnir and Algord were determined to guard their belongings, and Algord insisted that he could still fight well when Mifrún wanted him to retreat to the shelter. As the raid went on, a centaur broke down the door. He was wielding a longaxe and a longbow.

Algord was the first to charge at the centaur, using a shield to knock the longaxe out of the way. Ulfnir stepped beside Algord, but he missed the centaur by a few inches. The centaur retreated but crashed into a pole of their home. Unfortunately, as Algord stepped closer to the centaur, the centaur slashed into Algord's rib with his axe. Ulfnir, he then took the chance and jumped at the centaur, cleaving his wood axe into the centaur's head.

Meanwhile, the two were heading for the community hall. As they neared it, they were approached by another raider. Alfrir then did something stupid: he threw his spear at the centaur. Luckily for him, his spear struck the centaur. Ljorn then stepped in and finished it off with a poke to the centaur's face. Alfrir pulled his spear out of the centaur's corpse. Another approached them, and they killed that raider too. The two checked on one of their neighbors, Njall, and his family, who had already evacuated to the community hall.

After leaving the community hall, they were attacked by two raiders. One of them had a sword and shield, the other had a bow and was already aiming at Ljorn, who raised his shield in defense. The arrow bounced off his helmet. They fought the one with the sword and injured him, but as he staggered back and collapsed on the ground, the bow-wielder shot Ljorn in his left shoulder. He sought shelter within the community hall, leaving Alfrir to take care of the attacker, and Alfrir stopped an arrow with his shield before poking the attacker with his spear to death.