Lare off Honndaff

Nu, icc shall tellenn þi an ald spell, passedd to suness fra fæderress, to ferennerress illke. And maniȝ ferennerress knowweþþ tiss spell wel, swa remembre þiss wel ekedd, forrþi an daȝȝ mihhte wurrþenn þatt tu findesst tu arrt att hiss tommbe. And siþþenn þe trowwþe was lessedd, icc maȝȝ tellenn þi onnliȝ min wiss, ȝet to wot iss bettre þenn to wot ne. Swa hedennliȝ lisstenn:

I ȝorr, i þassanndess ȝeress off ȝorr, Nammȝamm an tunn was ferr i þe sowwþe, whær þe snaww falleþþ ne, and whær menn beldedd walless wiþþ limmstonness. An mann nemmnedd Honndaff livvedd i þiss tunn. He was tatt off strongg and beredd hærr off goldd, ȝet he hadde nan fammess. Swa an weppmann he was, an mass and warræx he aȝhedd.

Siþe, fra æsste land an flocc off ærdȝeottenness assaȝȝledd Nammȝamm. Swa wiþþ mass and warræx hiss, bælddliȝ he læppedd till þemm and clewedd hiss warræx i þe firrste. Wiþþ mass hiss he smatt aness hedd off, swa itt was slew and crimmedd to brutte ærdess, illke neverr cwikk. Þa he bowwedd and flæh an smitenn, þa he strehhtliȝ stod and smatt aness bowwelless biforenn itt maȝȝ swinngenn aȝȝ. Ȝet forr hiss unnlucc, biforenn he maȝȝedd slewenn all þemm, an off þe flocc hewedd hiss legg. Forrþi he flæh þemm, wiþþ onnliȝ twa ȝeotenness to remaȝȝne, and lætennde þe oþerr off wacchess to killenn þe remaȝȝness.

Forr hiss dedess, þeȝȝr laferrd off hiss tunn sene himm wurrþi an mass tatt teȝȝ ȝarrkedd Sterrlik Glissinggmass off Nammȝamm. And fra þatt laferrd he wast ȝæfedd an helmm and hawberrk ekedd. Nu, he iss dæde, settenn i hiss cattacummbass off stonness tilless, hu þe laferrd off Nammȝamm badd teȝȝr belderress to makenn. Till nu, hiss wæpeness leȝȝeþþ still i tommbe hiss, and spelless ȝarrke þatt teos still shinennde illke wære clænsedd, and tatt hiss gast hafe ben reȝȝsedd to currsenn hiss dwellennde, and to currsenn all þatt wollde darenn to ennturr þatt.

---

Nar, ek skolu á fabba þik unn aldr laga, hver foðar sékuð fyrir þaumins sonars, ok fyrir reysmandar. Ok maf reysmandar vot þessi laga upp jóm, ássi þrokðu þessi upp jóm méti, frá þessi unn dagr gvelti á arast hver þú mun á sve om þú ar á brífir om seini kurndrinskrendi. Ok frá þessi trúslingr om sin ar kel, ek œtti gvelti á séku þik minn vyss, ænn á vot ar jómurt ænnun á vot eigi. Frá þessi þessi, hvyrta mik:

Í vaman gúlni, í aldr om pjallundar gúlni, Namjamm var ríngu í þaf om hrófir, í staðar hver snóskar mult eigi á dúrta, ok í staðar hver mandar mult á byggja límskórr vekir. Unn mandr hver geiðað Hondaf hlímið í þessi ríngu. Sin ar sterkr ok eldaskað þrófn om yðir, ænn sin hafað eigi valr. Ássi vánðr sin var, unn grúll ok hálarauxr sin gértið.

Í mænagi, unn kjarti om sot skjalavir hreipnað Namjamm, hver farað frá austr. Ássi upp seini grúll ok hálarauxr, sein mæstúgti lipað til ep fyrstr ok sjarvað það upp seini hálarauxr. Með seini grúll, sin stogvað þatins hófan til af, ássi það molnað til nidd sotsklamar, samra það núaldr lífið. Hrun sin fóduð unn blofðingr, hrun sin vorkað ok stogvað etirunns abban í próðan það gvelti avíu á blofða. Ænn frá þessi seini prá var þort, próðan sin gvelti á slá auð þaust, sin batir feikað á seini lúga om unn þaumins. Ássi sin bleifðað þaum, með tvúr márlvóðar hver tafsir, hver sin barað þau lókkmandar fyrir á slá.

Frá þessi seini verkar, þet jarl om Namjamm jafað sin unn grúll hver þau geiðað Stœgisgrúll om Namjamm. Sin batir kjofað unn klídirkyrtill ok hjálmr méti. Í nar, sin ar dæran í seini kurndr frá skórramjortar, hver þet jarl boðen seini byggjamandar fyrir á gera. Ænn í nar, randar mun á fabba om Hondafs vapanar vigl setjanun í seini kurndr samra þaust ar vigl slefu, ok sin rausað frá dæran samra draugr, fyrir á blá seini hlímingr ok auð mandar hver mun á karð á fara til í seini hlímingr.

---

"Now, I shall tell you an old tale, passed from fathers to sons, to travelers alike. And many travelers know this well, so remember this well too, for a day may come that you find yourself at his tomb. And since the truth is lost, I can only tell you what I know, yet to know is better than to not know. So listen carefully:"

"In a time long past, thousands of years ago, there was a town called Namiam in the far south, where the snow doesn't fall, and where men built limestone walls. A man named Hondaf lived in this town. He was strong and had hair of gold, yet he had no fame. Because he was a warrior, he wielded a mace and a war axe."

"Once, a band of earth elementals (called earth-giants in original text) attacked Namiam from the western lands. So with his mace and war axe, he boldly leapt onto the first and cleaved it down with his axe. With his mace, he smashed the head off another, and so it was slain and crumbled into dull earth like it was never alive. Then he ducked and dodged a blow, then he spun around and struck another on it's stomach before it could swing again. Yet unfortunately for him, before he could kill them all, they hewed his leg. He fled from them, with only two remaining, and leaving the rest to be killed by the guards."

"For his deeds, the lord of his town saw him worthy of a mace named Star Glising of Namiam. And from that lord he was also given a helmet and a hauberk. Now, he is dead, buried inside his tomb of stone, who his lord requested their builders to make. Until now, his weapons still lay within his tomb, and rumors say that they still shine as if clean, and that his ghost rose like a draugr to curse his own tomb, and to curse to all who dare enter."
