Character Mentions: Alfrir, Algord, Baulnir, Elkfriða, Fraldr, Gorðr, Haldigr I and II, Iðunn, Ingwaz, Júlfr, Kolr, Lalfrel, Ljorn, Mifrún, Njall and his family (includes Þone and Meyrúna), Ulfrir, Yngvild, Þrein, two unidentified bandits, two unidentified draugr, two unidentified centaurs


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[Sometime before 820]
Haldigr I leads an exploration team south, heading towards the Kingdom of Tarib.


[About AD 820]
Haldigr I is killed between Centruma and Tarib. The explorers arrived at Tarib, saying he was killed by daevas.


[About AD 840]
Haldigr II builds their house on a hill. To the present day (973 AD), it is still inhabited by the same bloodline (Algord's family).


[About AD 880]
Júlfr and Iðunn participated in the Invasion of Bravosh. They are both slain during the invasion.


[About AD 915]
Algord and Mifrún are born.


[About AD 935]
At 20, Algord becomes a soldier and participates in a military campaign to wipe out bandit camps, taking his wood axe and shield with him. During this time, he finds two bronze rings, a spear, and a leather helmet. He returns home a year later.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[Year 946]
Ulfrir is born.


[Year 947]
Ljorn is born.


[Year 950]
Yngvild is born.


[Year 952]
Alfrir is born.


[Year 958]
(May)
While wandering in the forest, Fraldr, Gorðr, and Lalfrel see the draugr Haldigr I walking far away. They weren't able to see who it was, or know that it was Haldigr I. They quickly escape, saying that they saw a "cloaked man who was evil". They returned without a scratch, and told the rest of the family.

Two days later, Ljorn saw the same draugr just outside the forest during nighttime. He hid back into his home when Haldigr I turned to look at the village, thinking the draugr saw him. Because of this, he has been paranoid whenever he's inside a forest, especially boreal ones.


[Year 963]
(April)
Algord takes Alfrir and Ljorn to show them how to cut a tree down. Ljown also takes the role of a woodcutter to cut firewood.

(March)
Ljorn starts to practice fighting with an axe and round shield.

(June)
Yngvild decided to go alone into the forest and returned without a scratch with two mushrooms in her hand, wanting them to be cooked in the next stew. One turned out to be an ekraldys toadstool, a poisonous mushroom, when her mother Mifrún looked at it before actually putting it into the pot. The other was a normal non-poisonous brown mushroom.

(August)
While in the woods cutting a tree down, Alfrir and Ulfrir were almost crushed by a tree, but it was stopped by another tree. During this incident, Ulfrir was grazed by a falling fir cone. This resulted in a light, faint scar on his left brow ridge. Because of this, they were more cautious when felling trees.


[Year 967]
(July)
Ljorn and Alfrir go on their first adventure to explore the ruins of an ancient castle that had been spread by rumor. This castle ruins is located in the peninsula southwest of Esrelu. Baulnir and Elkfriða go with them. During the exploration, they find a couple of draugar that attack the party while inside. After killing those two, Ljorn discovers an old scroll and keeps it. Alfrir finds a spear and a bronze ring which he later gifted to Algord, their father.

During this time, the party saw an untouched sword lying somewhere within the castle walls, but before they could collect it, Elkfriða touched a vase and accidentally woke the draugr Ingwaz. Alfrir gets cut on the left leg by the draugr, and they all flee, leaving the vase behind.

When the two pass by Þuryngard Ring Fortress, Ljorn finds out the scroll is written with wisdom for seiðr. Because he doesn't know seiðr and that it's also traditionally feminine magic, he exchanged it for a stave and potion grimoire while they were wandering in the capital's marketplace.

(August)
When they returned, Ljorn commissioned Kolr to make him a sword. Alfrir also commissioned something for himself, which was a Gjermundbu helmet. After the return, Alfrir was determined to never be hit in the leg again, so from that on, he and Ulfrir began to spar with wooden poles as spears.


[Year 971]
(July)
After transporting two barrels of fish from Lismerlav to Argánlaf, Þrein (father of Baulnir and Elkfriða) offered Alfrir to protect his karve for a week and watch over it at night and will pay him three coppers for every night watched (food is provided). Alfrir agrees and goes with him to guard over the karve.

During his guarding, Alfrir caught two bandits skulking around looking to steal something. Alfrir attempted to chase after the bandits, but they disappeared into the forest. Þrein heard of this and decided to give five coppers instead of three after seeing the footprints of bare feet near the coast where his boat was.

After a week, Alfrir returns home with the coppers Þrein promised.

(August)
Ljorn lost his skill with axes in favor of his new sword.


[Year 972]
(September)
A group of centaurs from Vatakond raided Argánlaf. Ljorn was outside when this happened. As soon as he saw the centaur warriors approach the village, he ran back to his home and alerted them all of the attack. His exact words were: "Alfrir! Foðr! Þrast þinn vapanar en nar! Nar essaf gáhloppar tolaða!"

He and Alfrir left the house, while the rest (except for Ulfrir and Algord) went to the community hall for shelter. They both fought and killed a centaur and injured another. The two went to check up on one of their neighbors, Njall, and his family, who had already evacuated to the community hall.

Then, a bowman centaur approached the two and shot Ljorn on his left shoulder. He sought shelter within the community hall, leaving Alfrir to take care of the attacker, and Alfrir stopped an arrow with his shield before poking the attacker with his spear to death.

Back at their house, Ulfrir and Algord were still there. A centaur broke down the door, wielding a longaxe and a longbow. Algord and Ulfrir took an axe, but Algord was hit with the centaur's longaxe. Ulfrir killed the centaur and took a bow from the centaur.

Present year: 973