[[OVERVIEW]]
Aldraheimr is a mythic historical high fantasy world, set in the early medieval ages. The project started in 2023, July.

The goal of this project is to take classical and stereotypical fantasy elements and put them into a semi-realistic early medieval world, where the average man can live a normal historical life, free of the grand and wondrous, and still experience fantastical elements and real-world mythology. This world takes elements from Norse, Celtic, Roman, Norman, Slavic, Persian, and Chinese cultures (including their mythologies).

The current year is AD 973, and the time of the year is currently Early February. People war over political beliefs, religion, hatred, and conquest. Many weaponry, technology, and architectures are based on the Late Roman Period to the Late Viking Ages, or anything that was from the first ten centuries in AD. Structures like ring fortresses are built. Still, monsters like zombies, skeletons, elementals, and dragons exist, but they are not as powerful as most fantasy worlds portray them.

For magic, it varies much. But most magics are not war magic, for they are so subtle you won't see it happen. And since they aren't war magic, they are mostly shamanic and related to omens, luck, and nature. But for example Stave Magic (Galdrastafir), is a more prominent non-war magic that exists. Instead of being shamanic, it is always done ritually, done by drawing an intricate symbol with coal, then activating said symbol. Instead of being drawn with coal, some staves would require it to be carved, engraved in metal, etc.

An average practitioner of scholarly magic, possibly the only war magic that exists, shouldn't surpass the average warrior who donned an armor and a shield. Compared to DnD, wizards have been stripped of all their elemental spells, making it so that causing fires can't be done with a simple fire bolt. Therefore, even though its still possible to become more powerful than the average warrior, the most powerful war caster will have trouble going against ten average warriors.

Medieval Stasis: The gods want to see competition and progress in strength. Still, new technology can be developed, but they will likely be lost due to thieves, bandits, and war. Technology is currently comparable to earth's 1st to 10th century, will develop until the highest point of technology is comparable to earth's 12th - 14th century.



[[ANCESTRY]]
Cold elves evolved from moon elves.

Humans evolved from cold elves.

Dwarves had human ancestors. They have a greater ambition than humans, making them desire more wealth and power. So they took on mining, as it was the safest way to gain gold, silver and crystals without danger. From long periods of time being in dark areas and mining, their skin has gone very white, and their hair has gone very blonde or red, brighter than most humans. They also have the same lifespan of humans.

Dwarves have multiple kings. Each king usually handles a part of the kingdom, like a pantheon. One of the dwarven king will be the kings leader. Examples: One king handles the kingdom's army, one handles imports and exports, one handles economy etc.

Elves are more likely to worship Parhrügi, Hirulfyr, Lünanyr, or any of the three moons, but moon elves will not worship An.

Average lifespans:
	Human:		50-80
	Dwarf:		120-140 (dwarves age until 80 years old, then their aging slows down)
	Moon Elf:	170-230
	Cold Elf:	120-140
	Orc:		60-80
	Troll:		40-60



[[KINGDOMS]]
MEN:
	Centruma:
		Main language is Centrumic
		Culture is Central Men
		Political structure is elected autocracy

		Current allies: Fjalland, Aodesvu
		Current wars:   Yûmlathnar, Vatakond

	Fjalland:
		Main language is Fjallandic
		Culture is Northern Men
		Political structure is feudal absolute monarchy

		Current allies: Centruma, Esrelu, Vuntarla
		Current wars:   Yûmlathnar, Vatakond

	Tarib:
		Main language is Taribian
		Culture is Taribian (Persian)
		Political structure is aristocracy

		Current wars: Neshoz

	Aodesvu:
		Main language is Aodesvic
		Culture is Aodesvic
		Political structure is elected autocracy

	Þafnorðarleit:
		Main language is Fjallandic
		Culture is Northern Men
		Political structure is feudal absolute monarchy

	Rotherland:
		Main language is Rotherlandic
		Culture is Rotherlandic
		Political structure is feudal absolute monarchy

ELVES:
	Esrelu:
		Main language is Esrel
		Other language is Fjallandic
		Culture is Northern Elvish
		Political structure is noocracy

		Current allies: Fjalland, Vuntarla
		Current wars:   Yûmlathnar, Vatakond

	Rànûdel:
		Main language is Rànûdan
		Culture is Moon Elvish
		Political structure is geniocracy

		Current wars: Evil fey

	Yûmlathnar:
		Main language is Rànûdan
		Culture is Moon Elvish
		Political structure is elected autocracy

		Current allies: Vatakond, Evil fey
		Current wars:   Fjalland, Esrelu, Centruma
	
MEN AND ELVES:
	Vuntarla:
		Populated by cold elves, elfmen, and mostly men
		Main language is Fjallandic and Esrel
		Culture is Fjallandic
		Political structure is absolute monarchy

		Current allies: Fjalland

DWARVES:
	Glomdur:
		Main language is Banodic
		Culture is Banodic
		Political structure is elected diarchy

		Current allies: Banod
		Current wars:   Yûmlathnar

	Banod:
		Main language is Banodic
		Culture is Banodic
		Political structure is elected diarchy

		Current allies: Glomdur

	Mornesvid:
		Main language is Mornesvian
		Culture is Mornesvian
		Political structure is magocracy

CENTAURS:
	Vatakond:
		Main language is Sylvendric
		Culture is Centaur
		Political structure is noocracy

		Current allies: Yûmlathnar, Evil fey
		Current wars:   Fjalland, Esrelu, Centruma

	Heirfgria:
		Main language is Sylvendric
		Culture is Centaur
		Political structure is noocracy

ORCS:
	Neshoz:
		Main language is Neshozic
		Culture is Neshozic
		Political structure is noocracy

		Current wars: Tarib



[[GAME/ROLEPLAYING]]
Craftsmanship things:
	Common: Woodworking, Leatherworking (not shoes) Metalworking, Lumberjack, Miner
	Uncommon: Stone mason
	Rare: Calligraphers

Shops:
	Common: Shoemakers, farmers
	Uncommon: Woodcarvers, arms dealers, non-gemstone orb sellers
	Rare: Magic scrolls sellers, gemstone orb sellers

Trainers:
	Common: Axe, Spear, Mace
	Uncommon: Sword, Longaxe, Magic academies Level 1-5
	Rare: Magic academies Level 6-10

Average household (about 14 people):
	age 1-20  x5
	age 21-40 x4
	age 41-60 x3
	age 61+   x2

Civilizations ("rarity: uncommon" = "rarity: common + uncommon"):
	Village:  200  people (common crafters and shops)
	Town:     2000 people (uncommon crafters and shops)
	City:     6000 people (rare crafters and shops)
	Fortress: 70  people (1 ruler + 9 ruler's family + 20 guards + 40 garrisoned soldiers)

Available Classes (if converted to DnD):
	Fighter classes (No magic involved):
		Fighter (Practice some sort of martial arts using a melee weapon or with bare fists)
		Archer (Practice bows, or crossbows)
		Rogue (Practice the art of stealing and sneaking)

	Caster classes (Magic involved, almost no melee involved):
		Seer (Draws power from essence/presence of a god)
		Druid (Take care of nature so the fey give you fey powers)
		Sorcerer (Be born with magic powers)
		Wizard (Study hard to get magic powers)

	Fighter + Archer = Ranger
	Fighter + Seer = Cleric
	Fighter + being religious = Paladin
	Low level fighter + Non-magical healing skills or tonic/medicine making skills = Bard
	Evil druid = Warlock
