Language key:
	1: (a - b) = Kingdom's main language was originally A, slowly transformed to B
	2: (a - b- c) = Kingdom's main language was originally A, slowly transformed to B at the middle of it's time, became C near the end of it's collapse (or present day if it hasn't)

Settlements/empires/kingdoms:
	Human:
		Haear (Haearic)											(1930 BCE - 1120 BCE)								(Haearic)

		Borusdalis (Haearic)									(1120 BCE, less than a couple of decades)			(Haearic)
		Veilodin (Haearic - Borian)								(1120 BCE - 680 BCE)								(Haearic: 1120 BCE to 900 BCE, Borian: 900 BCE to 680 BCE)
		Borusdaliandur (Haearic - Borusdaliandurish)			(1120 BCE - 650 BCE)								(Haearic: 1120 BCE to 850 BCE, Borusdaliandurish: 850 BCE to 650 BCE)

		Zarapib (Borian - Old Taribian)							(650 BCE - 450 BCE)									(Borian: 650 BCE to 500 BCE, Old Taribian: 500 BCE to 450 BCE)

		Grutorus (Old Taribian - Grutorian)						(490 BCE - AD 0, became Galabrus and Cantrium)		(Old Taribian: 490 BCE to 220 BCE, Grutorian: 220 BCE to AD 0)
		Galabrus (Grutorian - Galabric)							(AD 0 - AD 350)										(Grutorian: AD 0 to AD 170, Galabric: AD 170 to AD 350)
		Cantrium (Old Cantrium)									(AD 0 - AD 410, became Centruma)					(Old Cantrium)

		Tarib (Old Taribian - Taribian)							(450 BCE - Present day)								(Old Taribian: 450 BCE to AD 670, Taribian: AD 670 to Present)
		Centruma (Old Cantrium - Centrumic)						(AD 410 - Present day)								(Old Cantrium: AD 410 to AD 720, Centrumic: AD 720 to Present)
		Fjalland (Galabric - Primal Fjallandic - Fjallandic)	(AD 780 - Present day)	(Galabric: AD 640 to AD 710, Primal Fjallandic: AD 710 to AD 810, Fjallandic: AD 810 to Present)

	Elf:
		Floraindelen (Ancient Elvish)							(Some time around Baln's rise, only a few decades)	(Ancient Elvish)
		Glienedràem (Ancient Elvish)							(2000 BCE - 1770 BCE)								(Ancient Elvish)
		Thissalfiran (Ancient Elvish)							(1880 BCE - 520 BCE, became Thissalfiran II)		(Ancient Elvish)
		Thissalfiran II (Ancient Elvish)						(520 BCE - disappeared off the face of the earth)	(Ancient Elvish)

		Rànûladàen (Old Rànûdan)								(360 BCE - AD 170, renamed to Rànûdel)				(Ancient Elvish: 360 BCE to AD 10, Old Rànûdan: AD 10 to AD 400)
		Rànûdel (Old Rànûdan - Rànûdan)							(AD 170 - Present day, or 360 BCE - Present day)	(Old Rànûdan: AD 10 to AD 400, Rànûdan: AD 400 to Present)

		Yûmlathnar (Rànûdan)									(??? - Present day)

		Esrelu (Old Rànûdan - Old Esrel - Esrel)				(AD 20 - Present day)								(Old Rànûdan: AD 20 to AD 50, Old Esrel: AD 50 to AD 600, Esrel: AD 600 to Present)
		Aodesvu (Old Rànûdan - Aodesvic)						(AD 170 - Present day)								(Old Rànûdan: AD 170 to AD 780, Aodesvic: AD 780 to Present)

	Dwarf:
		Baln (Primordial)										(Before 2000 BCE - 1770 BCE, became Banir)		(Primordial)
		Kiliidhuuk (Primordial)									(1540 BCE - 1120 BCE)							(Primordial)
		Banir (Primordial - Primordial Dwarven)					(1770 BCE - 1140 BCE)							(Primordial: 1770 BCE to 1440 BCE, Primordial Dwarven: 1440 to 1140 BCE)
		Banod (Primordial Dwarven - Old Banodic - Banodic)		(1140 BCE - Present day)	(Primordial Dwarven: 1140 to 830 BCE, Old Banodic: 830 BCE to 0 AD, Banodic: 0 AD - Present)
		Glomdur (Old Banodic - Banodic)							(AD 335 - Present day)		(Old Banodic: 335 BCE to AD 0, Banodic: AD 0 - Present)
		Mornesvid (Old Banodic - Mornesvian)					(AD 350 - Present day)		(Old Banodic: 350 BCE to AD 30, Mornesvian: AD 30 - Present)

	Centaur (Sylvendric: 2000 BCE - Present):
		Linklontinda (Sylvan)									(~3500 BCE)
		Hathklosh (Sylvendric)									(2000 BCE - 1800 BCE)
		Inglinimpara (Sylvendric)								(1930 BCE - 900 BCE)
		Shaefklimper (Sylvendric)								(830 BCE - 200 BCE)
		Heirfgria (Sylvendric)									(AD 50 - Present day)
		Vatakond (Sylvendric)									(AD 220 - Present day)



Legend:
	[TIME]   = The time which this event started.
	BCE      = Years before AD 1.
	AD       = Year 1 and later.
	Beliefs  = What is belived. This can be either true or false.



[Some time around 3500 BCE]
Linklontina, a centaur kingdom, rises in what is now called the Forests of Rànûdel.

[Before 2000 BCE]
Baln existed a few hundred years before. They were the first dwarven settlement, and they spoke Primordial.
Floraindelen existed only a few decades, which is small compared to Baln. They spoke Ancient Elvish.

[2000 BCE]
Glienedràem is formed. Hathklosh rises in the Heirfgrian Forest.

[1930 BCE]
Haear is formed. Floraindelen collapsed due to an invasion of earth and stone elementals, which were coming from a different plane. A month later, a group travelled to a fortress located in a massive cavern known as Krikihbolg Stone Fortress. They entered the fortress, and destroyed the portal that lead the elementals to the material plane.
Inglinimpara is also formed where Heirfgria is now.

[1800 BCE]
Inglinimpara starts a conquest, known as the Inglinimparan Conquest. They first target Hathklosh, and won.

[1770 BCE]
Glienedràem collapses, from the Inglinimparan Conquest. Anzudengot, the current king of Haear at this time, took advantage of this and took over the remains of Glienedràem. Baln was running low on food. They started to take exessive food from the village to feed their soldiers, and so there was a revolution, and was transformed into Banir, under new kings. Primordal branched into a new language, called Primordial Dwarven.

[1800 BCE]
Kingdom of Thissalfiran is created, named after it's founder. The Kingdom of Thissalfiran spoke Ancient Elvish.

[1540 BCE]
Kiliidhuuk rises, built in the mountains in between of current day Banod and Heirfgria.

[1140 BCE]
Banir collapsed, due to an economy problem. The people moved west, appointing a few new kings. This became known as the Banod.

[1120 BCE]
Haear collapses. Borusdalis, and Veilodin rises from Haear. The Kingdom of Thissalfiran attacked Borusdalis, destroying it. Refugees fled to Veilodin, while some went east, forming Borusdaliandur.
Kiliidhuuk collapsed from the Inglinimparan Conquest.

[910 BCE]
Borusdaliandur formed a peace treaty with Veilodin. Borusdaliandur was lead by a sorcerer named Borusdagl. Inglinimpara tried to attack Veilodin, but were intercepted by Borusdaliandur's army. Inglinimpara lost. Borusdaliandur then attacked what was originally Kiliidhuuk, destroying it.

[900 BCE]
Borusdaliandur and Veilodin decided to invade Inglinimpara. They successfully took over Inglinimpara, and ended the conquest.

[830 BCE]
Shaefklimper rises in the Heirfgrian Forest.

[740 BCE]
A group of earth elementals attacked Borusdaliandur, at a district named Namiam. Ther was a warrior named Hondaf. He was of average height, and his hair was brown. He who lived there took a mace and axe, and defended it. He lost his axe, but was able to destroy most of the elementals before he retreated due to injury, letting the guards and soldiers deal with the rest. He was gifted a star glising, which was named Star Glising of Namiam.

Beliefs: Hondaf is a tall muscular figure with long blond hair. His tomb is cursed by the spirit of himself.

<First Age of Peace START>

[760 BCE]
Hondaf died a natural death. His body was buried in a memorial along with his Star Glising of Namiam, which was then moved to a tomb. The tomb is now protected by spells (Symbol and Intricate Runic Staves).

<First Age of Peace END>

[680 BCE]
Veilodin collapsed, when a massive disease broke out. It was an incurable disease at it's time. A few hundred people traveled to Borusdaliandur. However, to stop mass migration and potential disease outbreak, Borusdaliandur had artillery to try and kill any immigrants that tried to enter. Almost half of them died to either disease, or the massacre, known as the Veilodin Migration Massacre.

[650 BCE]
Borusdaliandur fell. The people of Veilodin traveled south, to the Taribian desert. They formed an empire, named Zarapib. Zarapib was also led by a sorcerer, named Junas.

[610 BCE]
Junas was assassinated by a group of bandits. Zarapib almost collapsed, but was saved by Haronin using a spear to fend off the bandits. He became a hero right after the bandits fled, and was given the title of emperor.

[550 BCE]
Emperor Haronin died.

[520 BCE]
Kingdom of Thissalfiran fell. A new empire, named Kingdom of Thissalfiran II rose, under Uluranush.

[490 BCE]
A group of explorers from Zarapib decided to travel north, to where current day Centruma is. They established a settlement called Grutorus, which would in the future become a village, then town, then kingdom.

[450 BCE]
Zarapib collapsed, and Tarib rose, taking over it's remains.

[360 BCE]
Grutorus fully became a kingdom. In the Kingdom of Thissalfiran II, a group of explorers went to where current day Ranûdel is, and put down a new Kingdom, named Rànûladàen.

[200 BCE]
Shaefklimper collapsed.

Beliefs: Shaefklimper's collapse (and most of it's reign) is a mystery.

 ^
 |
BCE
~~~~~~~~~~
AD
 |
 v

[Exactly AD 0]
Grutorus collapsed. From the remains of Grutorus, a two new kingdoms rose. Galabrus, and Cantrium. Cantrium was now where current day Cantruma is, and Galabrus was many kilometers northwest of Cantrium.

Beliefs: The King of Grutorus killed himself because of stress.

[AD 30]
An priceless, but recently made artifact, a stone tablet containing a poem in Old Rànûdan, was stolen from a forgotten settlement in Rànûladàen. The forgotten settlement was abandoned after an attack from civil war, but only after few years did they remember this tablet, labeling it as an "ancient" magic item. When an adventurous group decided to search the ruins of this settlement, they found nothing. A group of fey, one dryad and several satyrs, had already taken the tablet. Lànassil, who was the dryad, found this tablet.

[AD 40]
An ideology of retribution sprouted in the Kingdom of Wassatila, quickly taking over. Wassatila is an ancient kingom in Furnalfa, inhabited by dryads and centaurs. The idea of this ideology was the intelligent races in the material realm were destroying nature, and even Talmundur (God of Nature, Storms, and Luck) by burning wood, killing animals, and even go as far to call wizards cultists. There were just a little more fey that followed this ideology than the ones that didn't. The ones that opposed this ideology stayed far away from Wassatila, some even fled to the material realm.

Lànassil was one of the few that actively opposed it, joining in the local fey military that fought against this. A few years later when they attacked the region she lived in, they killed her tree and stole her tablet. Lànassil then fled to the material plane, and now resides in the forest in the peninsula southwest of Esrelu.

[AD 50]
Heirfgria is created. A group of centaurs traveled north.

[AD 55]
The group of travelers settled in what is now Vatakond.

[AD 170]
Rànûladàen was renamed to Rànûdel. Some moon elves did not like the change, so they went and created a kingdom called Aodesvu.

[AD 220]
The centaur settlement transforms into Vatakond.

[AD 350]
Galabrus was destroyed. Banodic explorers traveled, and created Mornesvid.

Beliefs: The gods destroyed Galabrus who "greatly and mightily" defied them. (really there's no explaination)

[AD 355]
Banodic explorers traveled from Banod again, and created Glomdur.

[AD 410]
Cantrium went under revolution, becoming current day Centruma.

[AD 500]
Yûmlathnar is created.

[Exactly AD 548]
A large group of explorers from a Galabric village traveled up north. It was led by Bentolus, Garaldor, Þungwaz and Muntin.

[Exactly AD 550]
The large group of explorers unknowingly enterd the territory of a large bandit group, who named themselves the Kynnigwaz. During the fighting, Bentolus and Þungwaz was slain. Their bodies were buried in a tomb.

A week later, the remaining group established a new settlement: Thaldranga.

[AD 560]
The King of Yûmlathnar gets corrupted, and used propaganda to make the people believe humans and dwarves are possessed by demons.

[AD 600]
Thaldranga became Þalmundrynga.

[AD 640]
From the settlement Þalmundrynga, Fjalland rises.

Beliefs: Jóki was a warrior from the village Hrafandis. He traveled north to explore a tomb, but was met by the draugr Tiwaz. Jóki described Tiwaz as "He looked like a rotting corpse. Big as a bull, boated and black like boiling tar. He had the strength of many men, and appeared and vanished as he pleased." Luckily, Jóki was able to defend himself by throwing rocks at the draugr before making his escape.

<Second Age of Peace START>

[AD 650]
A group of explorers from Rànûladàen traveled north, and established Esrelu and Vuntarla. Vuntarla is built on a fjord, perched overlooking the eastern ocean, while Esrelu was in the northwest where it was icy cold.

[AD 870]
Centaurs were spotted scouting in the forests of Fjalland.

<Second Age of Peace END>
<RECENT (All below are in exact years)>

[AD 905]
Fjalland invades Antaragen, Vatakond. Antaragen was successfully captured. They turned it into an outpost.
Yûmlathnar launches assault upon Glomdur, bringing chaos. Glomdur barely survives due to not having much defense experience, and only because Yûmlathnar only took resources.

[AD 911]
Fjalland launches a raid on Bravosh, Vatakond. This was also successful. Yûmlathnar offered help to Vatakond, who did accept.

[AD 918]
Vatakond attacks Bantusea. Borthan Tamiar, who was Nix's ancestor, died from being shot in the head with an arrow by invading centaurs. The centaurs' attack was unsuccessful, and retreated.

[AD 919]
Gardorus, the king of Centruma at the time, knew of this and he launched an attack on Ainattor, Vatakond. Ainattor was destroyed.

[AD 932]
King Alfþorin of Fjalland dies of old age. His son, Alfþorin the Second, takes his father's place as king. The first thing he did was to launch a military campaign to wipe as many bandit camps as they could in a year. They destroyed around 20 camps, which were about half of all the camps.

[AD 934]
Jeiruld sets up an arcane school in Tarib called the Academy of Aldorim. The academy's main focus is evocation, and now serves as the common training school for Fjallandic war wizards.

[AD 955]
Fjalland launches an invasion on Yûmlathnar, which was unsuccessful. This was the start of the war between Fjalland and Yûmlathnar.

[AD 956]
Säelri learns about the Rànûladàenic tablet, from a group of travelers from Rànûdel. Säelri spent a week to prepare, then traveled to Furnalfa to retrieve this tablet.

[AD 957]
Evil fey tries to get King Vasolas of Rànûdel to help them in their conquest of the material plane. King Vasolas denied to help them, so the evil fey launched an attack of 10 gvarths onto Rànûdel, targeting Emeröreslu and any nearby settlements. Rànûdel defended itself against this attack.

Säelri returns with the Rànûladàenic tablet. She presents it to Ildiyre. Because of this, Ildiyre gave a small piece of forest just north of Vesesvala to Säelri.

[AD 960]
Yûmlathnar travels up and attacks Sölenzâeth, Esrelu. Sölenzâeth was almost ruined, but recovered after many months.

[AD 961]
Fjalland launches another military campaign to wipe bandit camps. This time, only 5 camps were destroyed.

[AD 962]
Yûmlathnar surprise attacks Bantusea. The attack was partially successful, half the town destroyed. Centruma sent an army to Vatakond, but was intercepted by Vatakond's forces, and were flanked by Yûmlathnar's army mid-battle. Centruma's army retreated.

[AD 966]
Okrif of Kjartkjofn dies. Eifnod is made the new jarl of Kjartkjofn.

[AD 968]
Fjalland and Esrelu sends an army to attack Ilimathil, Yûmlathnar, and pillaged it.

[AD 972]
Yûmlathnar launches an attack on Þuryngard, but was intercepted by Fjalland's army. They retreated after losing a fraction of the army.
Vatakond raids Argánlaf, which was kind of successful, even though they retreated without destroying half the village.
