The Kingdom of Wulfscithia was established in AD 870 as a small kingdom, from explorers who came from Rotherland. Thirty years later in 900, the first king passed away. His son inherited the throne from him. But over the next few years, evil fey corrupted the new king and manipulated him, using him as a leverage to their crusade against men. Using him, he spread propaganda throughout the kingdom to make his people believe other foreigners were possessed by demons.

The year is AD 935. From their seeresses, the King Alfþórr the First knew what the fey were trying to do. They struck first, invading the village of Antaragen in Vatakond. They successfully seized it and turned it into an outpost of their own. The kingdom launched another raid, this time on Bravosh.

The kingdom Wulfscithia reached out to Vatakond and offered help. Vatakond accepted.

A year later, Vatakond attacked Bantusaem, Centruma. But they couldn't get past their defenses and retreated. However, King Gardorus, the current ruler of Centruma at the time, knew of this and wasn't happy. He planned revenge and ordered an attack on Ainattor, Vatakond. The village was destroyed.

Many years have passed. King Alfþórr had passed away, and his son, Alfþórr II, took the crown. But now Fjalland is prepared. After the campaign to destroy bandit camps, the king ordered the first invasion of Wulfscithia, but it failed.

The year is now AD 972. Wulfscithia decided to begin their attack on Þuryngard, the capital of Fjalland. But before they could reach the fortress, their army was intercepted by Fjalland's army and quickly fled.

At the same time, Vatakond raided Álahringr. During the invasion, one of the centaurs, named Shafklimper, tried to set fire to the community hall. The fire caught on the roof, but it couldn't spread well because of a windy day. The fire was quickly put out by one of the locals. Shafklimper galloped back to the centaur ranks, avoiding five arrows that were shot at him. Álahringr was half-ransacked.

Unfortunately for Shafklimper, the seer of Álahringr cursed him and he died.

Álahringr has recovered now and is doing fine.
