Lare off Honndaff

Nu, icc shall tellenn þi an ald spell, passedd to suness fra fæderress, to ferennerress illke. And maniȝ ferennerress knowweþþ tiss spell wel, swa remembre þiss wel ekedd, forrþi an daȝȝ mihhte wurrþenn þatt tu findesst tu arrt att hiss tommbe. And siþþenn þe trowwþe was lessedd, icc maȝȝ tellenn þi onnliȝ min wiss, ȝet to wot iss bettre þenn to wot ne. Swa hedennliȝ lisstenn:

I ȝorr, i þassanndess ȝeress off ȝorr, Nammȝamm an tunn was ferr i þe sowwþe, whær þe snaww falleþþ ne, and whær menn beldedd walless wiþþ limmstonness. An mann nemmnedd Honndaff livvedd i þiss tunn. He was tatt off strongg and beredd hærr off goldd, ȝet he hadde nan fammess. Swa an weppmann he was, an mass and warræx he aȝhedd.

Siþe, fra æsste land an flocc off ærdȝeottenness assaȝȝledd Nammȝamm. Swa wiþþ mass and warræx hiss, bælddliȝ he læppedd till þemm and clewedd hiss warræx i þe firrste. Wiþþ mass hiss he smatt aness hedd off, swa itt was slew and crimmedd to brutte ærdess, illke neverr cwikk. Þa he bowwedd and flæh an smitenn, þa he strehhtliȝ stod and smatt aness bowwelless biforenn itt maȝȝ swinngenn aȝȝ. Ȝet forr hiss unnlucc, biforenn he maȝȝedd slewenn all þemm, an off þe flocc hewedd hiss legg. Forrþi he flæh þemm, wiþþ onnliȝ twa ȝeotenness to remaȝȝne, and lætennde þe oþerr off wacchess to killenn þe remaȝȝness.

Forr hiss dedess, þeȝȝr laferrd off hiss tunn sene himm wurrþi an mass tatt teȝȝ ȝarrkedd Sterrlik Glissinggmass off Nammȝamm. And fra þatt laferrd he wast ȝæfedd an helmm and hawberrk ekedd. Nu, he iss dæde, settenn i hiss cattacummbass off stonness tilless, hu þe laferrd off Nammȝamm badd teȝȝr belderress to makenn. Till nu, hiss wæpeness leȝȝeþþ still i tommbe hiss, and spelless ȝarrke þatt teos still shinennde illke wære clænsedd, and tatt hiss gast hafe ben reȝȝsedd to currsenn hiss dwellennde, and to currsenn all þatt wollde darenn to ennturr þatt.

---

Núna, ek skolu á fabba þik enn aldr sága, hver föðar séguð fyrir þaumins sonirs, ok fyrir reysmandar. Ok maf reysmandar jóm vot þessi sága, ássi jóm þrokðu þessi méti, frá þessi enn dagr gvelt á arask hver þú mun á sve um þú ar á brefir hans gröfshurð. Ok frá þessi hans trútr ar nurnaði, ek ötti gvelt á ségu þik um minn vyss, ænn á vot ar eltr ænnun á vot eigi. Frá þessi, hvyrta mik:

Í ærandagr, í aldr um pjallundir jörir, Namjamm var ríngu í þaf hrófir, í staðar hver snóskar mult eigi á dúrta, ok í staðar hver mandar mult á byggja límskórr vekir. Enn mandr hver geiðað Hondaf búað í þessi ríngu. Han ar sterkr ok eldaskað þrófn um yðir, ænn han hafað eigi valr. Ássi hálmandr han var, enn grúll ok hálöx han nytað.

Í mænagi, enn knarti um sötgjaustar hrepnað Namjamm, hver farað frá östr. Ássi upp hans grúll ok hálöx, han mæstúgti lipað til ep fyrstr ok sjarvað það upp hans hálöx. Með hans grúll, han stogvað þaðins hófn til af, ássi það mölnað til nidd sötsklamar, sama það núaldr lífið. Hrun han fóduð enn breifla, hrun han vörkað ok stogvað etirönns abban próðan það gvelt avíu á blofða. Ænn frá þessi hans prá var syðr, próðan han gvelt á slá aua þaust, hans lúga batir feikað um þaumins önn. Ássi han fljúgað frá þaum, með tvúr márlvóðar hver tafsir, hver han barað þau lókkmandar fyrir á slá.

Frá þessi hans verkar, þet jarl um Namjamm jafað hatt um enn grúll hver þau geiðað Stögisgrúll um Namjamm. Han batir men kjofað enn klíðrkyrtill ok hjálmr méti. Í núna, han ar dæran í hans skórr gröf, hver þet jarl boðen hans byggjamandar fyrir á gera. Ænn í núna, röndir mun á fabba um Hondafs vapanar vigl setjanun í hans gröf sama þaust vigl ar slefu, ok han rausað frá dæran sama draugr, fyrir á blá hans hlímingr ok aua mandar hver mun á karð á fara til í hans hlímingr.

---

"Now, I shall tell you an old tale, passed from fathers to sons, to travelers alike. And many travelers know this well, so remember this well too, for a day may come that you find yourself at his tomb. And since the truth is lost, I can only tell you what I know, yet to know is better than to not know. So listen carefully:"

"In a time long past, thousands of years ago, there was a town called Namiam in the far south, where the snow doesn't fall, and where men built limestone walls. A man named Hondaf lived in this town. He was strong and had hair of gold, yet he had no fame. Because he was a warrior, he wielded a mace and a war axe."

"Once, a band of earth elementals (called earth-giants in original text) attacked Namiam from the western lands. So with his mace and war axe, he boldly leapt onto the first and cleaved it down with his axe. With his mace, he smashed the head off another, and so it was slain and crumbled into dull earth like it was never alive. Then he ducked and dodged a blow, then he spun around and struck another on it's stomach before it could swing again. Yet unfortunately for him, before he could kill them all, they hewed his leg. He fled from them, with only two remaining, and leaving the rest to be killed by the guards."

"For his deeds, the lord of his town saw him worthy of a mace named Star Glising of Namiam. And from that lord he was also given a helmet and a hauberk. Now, he is dead, buried inside his tomb of stone, who his lord requested their builders to make. Until now, his weapons still lay within his tomb, and rumors say that they still shine as if clean, and that his ghost rose like a draugr to curse his own tomb, and to curse to all who dare enter."
