Álahringr

Kingdom:        Oddarsveldi
Population:     300 people
Current hersir: Randúlfr



Álahringr is one of the most southern villages in Oddarsveldi. It borders the Southern Northmannish Forests, and because it is also one of the closest villages to Rotherland and Centruma, travelers occasionally pass through the road.

Álahringr was the battlefield of the last invasion attempt by Vatakond, as part of the Campaign of Wulfscithia.



[[SETTLEMENT]]
In the northwest of the village which is farther from the forest and river, there are two large longhouses built side by side, one built for the hersir's family, and the second one being the community hall where meetings are held. There is also an iron bell built into the community hall, rung when an important meeting is required. Usually, when there is a raid, the bell, and a war horn are sounded at the same time.

In the forest next to the village are the ruins of a 150-year-old longhouse, that was abandoned after the sighting of a troll wandering in the forest. The ruins are in a small opening grown over by grass and bushes, now its rotten framing is all that is left.

There are two watchtowers built on the west side of the village to watch over the forest. Another watchtower is built on the south side of the village beside the bridge, to oversee the bridge and the river. Each watchtower has at least one archer stationed, with a war horn for the archer.

And finally, a four-meter-high wall is being built around the village starting from the farthest side of the community hall. It is still early in construction, so for now, it provides little protection.

Every morning, people can be seen walking to the river to wash clothing, gather water, or even swim in it. About ten guards patrol the inside of the village at night, ensuring that the village isn't raided again. 



[[IMPORTANT LOCATIONS]]
The house of the hersir's family is a large longhouse, fenced off with a plank fence instead of wattle fencing. In the fencing, several pens are holding a few cattle, goats, and three horses for riding.

The longhouse ruin was once supposed to be the first building in the settlement. After the first hersir sighted a troll wandering in the distance, the house was abandoned. Now it is only a rotten wooden frame, overgrown with plants. Until now, it is believed that the ghost of that troll dwells here.

Around the middle of Álahringr, there is a market where merchants, travelers, and traders set up stalls to sell various objects. Many everyday items can be bought there, but it's extremely rare to find luxury items on sale. 



[[LANDSCAPE]]
Álahringr was built on a slightly jagged grassland, south of Oddarsveldi. There are almost no flowers present on the grasslands, the only ones being white flowers that are faintly scattered across the landscape. The forest to the west is uphill.

The edge of the Southern Northmannish Forest is west of the village, where bushes are more prevalent the closer you are to the edge, with a dirt path that leads into the forest to the abandoned longhouse. The forest is a mix of fir and pines with a bit of undergrowth.

There is a wide, meter-and-a-half-deep river not far south of Álahringr, with a wooden bridge built across. There is a path that goes east towards Óssvík, but it ends tens of meters at a small lake with a dingy boat port with a single torch. The lake is surrounded by tall bushes.



[[LOCAL TRADING]]
Traders usually take a boat along the southern river, to trade wood and berries for fish with Óssvík, which is a long way to the east where it is farther away from forestry. The boats usually stop at the dingy boat port at the small lake.



[[SPECIFIC BELIEFS]]
Troll of the old longhouse: It is believed that the ghost of a troll dwells in that old longhouse, and anyone who is caught by the ghost might get cursed by it.
Centaur bias: A lot of people have a bias against centaurs due to a raid last year, from the neighboring centaur kingdom Vatakond.
