[Year 965]
Meyrúna and Ljorn first met each other during Yule. They were young, both in their teens. She also met Yngvild, who was Ljorn's younger sister. She became friends with both, strengthening her friendship bond with Ljorn over their interest in the forest next to the village known as the Southern Fjallandic Forest, the southern region of the entirety of the Fjallandic Forests. They would regularly banter over who knew more about the natural world. But every time they talked about herbs, Meyrúna seemed to best Ljorn in knowledge. Of course, this tendency to banter would slowly die out the older they became.

[Year 967]
After returning to Argánlaf from his adventure to the ancient castle ruins with his brother, Alfrir, Ljorn wandered the local marketplace. Meyrúna was in the middle of helping her father, Njall, set up his herb stall. Ljorn instantly recognized them and bought healing herbs to help treat Alfrir's injury. After this encounter, he would sometimes stop by to buy from Njall. It wasn't until a month later when Meyrúna found out about the potions grimoire Ljorn bought from the kingdom's capital city. They began to share herbal knowledge, but secretly, she deeply envied that grimoire ever since then.

[Years 968 to 970]
Slowly over the years, Ljorn started to become quieter the more mature he grew. He wouldn't speak as much as he used to, nor would he be as energetic.

[Year 970]
One day, Ljorn decided to visit Meyrúna, only to find out from Njall that she went into the forest alone. Without thinking, Ljorn asked whether she would be fine. Njall said yes, and explained that she has her short spear with her. This slightly surprised him, since he didn't know she had one. Once Ljorn returned home, he considered going into the forest to look for her but caught himself thinking such thoughts. He then remembered how he asked Njall about Meyrúna's safety so quickly, and he felt a sense of fear of what he was getting himself into. So in an attempt to stop the fear and attempt to escape what he might be getting into, he put on a stoic front and shoved those random feelings aside. And just to let it sink in, Ljorn had the mindset that the Southern Fjallandic Forests were mostly safe to walk in.

[Year 972]
Argánlaf was attacked by centaurs, who came from the forest. Fortunately for them, centaurs aren't good at stealth, so the lookouts easily spotted the raiders before they could launch a surprise attack, and all of Argánlaf were alerted by their war horns and the bell of the community hall. Meyrúna's family retreated into the community hall, the building farthest from the forest. After minutes, Ljorn and Alfrir, both decked out in their armor and weapons, were able to fight their way to the community hall. Meyrúna saw the two enter, making sure that no one was hurt, then left the hall to defend the village.

When Ljorn disappeared behind the hall doors, she found herself with her gaze lingering on the closed hall doors and felt a flutter she had never felt before. This moment would later develop into a crush on him. But literally a minute after they left, Ljorn staggered into the hall with an arrow stuck in his shoulder. He took shelter there and was treated by healers.

Later in November, Yngvild, being the more socially adept one in Ljorn's family, noticed Meyrúna's crush. Of course, Meyrúna denied it, afraid that Ljorn would find out and reject her. Yngvild promised she would keep it a secret.

[Year 973]
The month is roughly around January. Argánlaf, the village, was covered in a layer of snow. Ljorn began to notice certain changes in Meyrúna's behavior: bashfulness, awkward silences or glances, and a gift (a wooden raven figurine).

Sometime during the early days of this month, Yngvild accidentally revealed to Alfrir the secret she promised to keep. But during that same day, Ljorn overheard them, with Yngvild talking about how Meyrúna doesn't usually do that to other people. After hearing this, Ljorn felt overwhelmed and gave himself an excuse to eat dinner late so that he could be alone. During his late dinner alone, he debated to himself how he was supposed to react, but then realized his feelings for her due to his protectiveness and kindness to her.

A week later, Ljorn decided to talk to Meyrúna about it. She was sitting by the frozen-over river, carving a spoon out of pine wood when Ljorn approached her. And in the most subtle, but knowing way, he expressed that he knew about her crush and that he also feels something too. After that, Ljorn offered a walk in the forest, and so they did.
