[Year 965]
Rúna and Ljörn first met each other during Yule. They were young, both in their teens. She also met Yngvild, who was Ljörn's younger sister. She became friends with both, strengthening her friendship bond with Ljörn over their interest in the forest next to the village known as the Southern Northmannish Forest, the southern region of the entirety of the Northmannish Forests. They would regularly banter over who knew more about the natural world. But whenever they talked about herbs, Rúna seemed to best Ljörn in knowledge. Of course, this tendency to banter would slowly die out the older they became.


[Year 967]
After returning to Álahringr from his adventure to the ancient castle ruins with his brother, Alfrir, Ljörn wandered the local marketplace. Rúna was in the middle of helping her father, Njall, set up his herb stall. Ljörn instantly recognized them and bought healing herbs to help treat Alfrir's injury. After this encounter, he would sometimes stop by to buy from Njall. It wasn't until a month later that Rúna found out about the potions grimoire he bought from the kingdom's capital city. They began to share herbal knowledge, but secretly, she deeply envied that grimoire ever since then.


[Years 968 to 970]
Slowly over the years, Ljörn started to become quieter the he grew more mature. He wouldn't speak as much as he used to, nor would he be as energetic.


[Year 970]
One day, Ljörn decided to visit Rúna, only to find out from Njall that she went into the forest alone. Without thinking, Ljörn asked whether she would be fine. Njall said yes and explained that she has her short spear with her. This surprised Ljörn slightly, since he didn't know she had one. Once Ljörn returned home, he considered going into the forest to look for her but caught himself thinking such thoughts. He then remembered how he asked Njall about Rúna's safety so quickly, and he felt a sense of fear of what he was getting himself into. So in an attempt to stop the fear and attempt to escape what he might be getting into, he put on a stoic front and shoved those random feelings aside. And just to let it sink in, Ljörn had the mindset that the Southern Northmannish Forests were mostly safe to walk in.


[Year 972]
Álahringr was attacked by centaurs, who came from the forest. Fortunately for them, centaurs aren't good at stealth, so the lookouts easily spotted the raiders before they could launch a surprise attack, and all of Álahringr were alerted by their war horns and the bell of the community hall. Rúna's family retreated into the community hall, the building farthest from the forest. After minutes, Ljörn and Alfrir, both decked out in their armor and weapons, were able to fight their way to the community hall. Rúna saw the two enter, making sure that no one was hurt. The two then left the hall to defend the village.

After Ljörn disappeared behind the hall doors, Rúna found herself with her gaze lingering on the closed hall doors and felt a flutter she had never felt before. This moment would later develop into a crush on him. But literally a minute after they left, Ljörn staggered into the hall with an arrow stuck in his shoulder. He took shelter there and was treated by healers. From nowhere, she got a small urge of protectiveness and wanted to go check on him, but for some reason, she couldn't bring herself to.

Some time during November, Rúna thought it would be nice if she carved a small wooden figurine of a raven and gave it to Ljörn. So she carved one out of a piece of juniper, the tree of a greater protection herb. She went over to his home, but instead of giving it to him directly, she asked Ulfnir to give it to him. She then quickly left the enclosure of his house, trying to be as inconspicuous as possible. For Rúna, Ulfnir passed it over to Ljörn and told him it was from Rúna.

But Rúna would never just give a carving away like that. Still, Ljörn didn't think it meant anything because he thought her gift was normal.

The day after Rúna gave him that figurine, she wondered why in Myrkjörðr she gave him the figurine. She started to fret over thinking she might've made a small mistake in the carving she made, but then reminded herself that it was just a gift and nothing she should be embarrassed by.

Later in December, Yngvild, being the more socially adept one in Ljörn's family, noticed Rúna's crush. Yngvild went to confront Rúna, but Rúna quickly denied it, afraid that Ljörn would find out and reject her. Yngvild promised she would keep it a secret.


[Year 973]
The month is roughly January. Álahringr, the village, was covered in a layer of snow. Ljörn began to notice certain changes in Rúna's behavior: bashfulness, awkward silences or glances, and the carved gift she gave him.

Sometime during the early days of this month, Yngvild accidentally revealed to Alfrir the secret she promised to keep. She told Alfrir how Rúna doesn't just gift carvings to other people. But during that same day, Ljörn overheard them. He felt overwhelmed and gave himself an excuse to eat dinner late so that he could be alone. During his late dinner alone, he debated to himself how he was supposed to react, but then realized his feelings for her due to his protectiveness and kindness to her.

A week later, Ljörn sought Rúna out and talked to her about it. She was sitting by the frozen-over river, carving a spoon out of pine wood, when Ljörn approached her. In the most subtle but knowing way, he expressed that he knew about her crush and that he also felt something too. Rúna froze, but then Ljörn offered a walk in the forest, and so they did.

Current date: Early February
