Language key:
	1: (a - b) = Kingdom's main language was originally A, slowly transformed to B
	2: (a - b- c) = Kingdom's main language was originally A, slowly transformed to B at the middle of it's time, became C near the end of it's collapse (or present day if it hasn't)

Settlements/empires/kingdoms:
	Haear (Haearic)											(1930 BCE - 1120 BCE)								(Haearic)

	Borusdalis (Haearic)									(1120 BCE, less than a couple of decades)			(Haearic)
	Veilodin (Haearic - Borian)								(1120 BCE - 680 BCE)								(Haearic: 1120 BCE to 900 BCE, Borian: 900 BCE to 680 BCE)
	Borusdaliandur (Haearic - Borusdaliandurish)			(1120 BCE - 650 BCE)								(Haearic: 1120 BCE to 850 BCE, Borusdaliandurish: 850 BCE to 650 BCE)

	Zarapib (Borian - Old Taribian)							(650 BCE - 450 BCE)									(Borian: 650 BCE to 500 BCE, Old Taribian: 500 BCE to 450 BCE)

	Grutorus (Old Taribian - Grutorian)						(490 BCE - AD 0, became Galabrus and Cantrium)		(Old Taribian: 490 BCE to 220 BCE, Grutorian: 220 BCE to AD 0)
	Galabrus (Grutorian - Galabric)							(AD 0 - AD 350)										(Grutorian: AD 0 to AD 170, Galabric: AD 170 to AD 350)
	Cantrium (Old Cantrium)									(AD 0 - AD 410, became Centruma)					(Old Cantrium)

	Tarib (Old Taribian - Taribian)							(450 BCE - Present day)								(Old Taribian: 450 BCE to AD 670, Taribian: AD 670 to Present)
	Centruma (Old Cantrium - Centrumic)						(AD 410 - Present day)								(Old Cantrium: AD 410 to AD 720, Centrumic: AD 720 to Present)
	Fjalland (Galabric - Primal Fjallandic - Fjallandic)	(AD 640 - Present day)								(Galabric: AD 640 to AD 710, Primal Fjallandic: AD 710 to AD 810, Fjallandic: AD 810 to Present)
	Rotherland (Old Cantrium - Rotherlandic)				(AD 560 - Present day)								(Old Cantrium: AD 560 to AD 750, Rotherlandic: AD 750 to Present)
	Herthland (Old Cantrium-Rotherlandic - Rotherlandic)	(AD 600 - Present day)								(Old Cantrium-Rotherlandic: AD 600 to AD 800, Rotherlandic: AD 800 to Present)
	Aodesvu (Old Cantrium - Aodesvic)						(AD 220 - Present day)

	Wulfscithia (??? - Rotherlandic)						(AD 500 - Present day)

	Centaur (Sylvendric: 2000 BCE - Present):
		Linklontinda (Sylvan)								(~3500 BCE)
		Hathklosh (Sylvendric)								(2000 BCE - 1800 BCE)
		Inglimpara (Sylvendric)								(1930 BCE - 900 BCE)
		Shaefklimper (Sylvendric)							(830 BCE - 200 BCE)
		Heirfgria (Sylvendric)								(AD 50 - Present day)
		Vatakond (Sylvendric)								(AD 220 - Present day)



Legend:
	[TIME]   = The time which this event started.
	BCE      = Years before AD 1.
	AD       = Year 1 and later.
	Beliefs  = What is belived. This can be either true or false.



[Some time around 3500 BCE]
Linklontina, an ancient centaur kingdom, rose to power in the midst of the Mountains of Bark. They were the first inhabitants of those mountains they reigned over.


[2000 BCE]
Hathklosh rises in the Heirfgrian Forest.


[1930 BCE]
Haear is formed.


[1860 BCE]
Haear was attacked by an invasion of earth and stone elementals, whom all came from a different plane. After the people of Haear was able to defend themselves, a group of mercenaries were sent by King Anzudengot to find its source and stop it. They travelled to a Krikihbolg Stone Fortress, a fortress embedded inside a massive cavern. They entered the fortress and soon found an elemental portal, the source of their foes. They destroyed the portal that lead the elementals to Myrkjorðr, stopping the invasion.

Inglimpara is formed where Heirfgria is now.


[1800 BCE]
Inglimpara starts a conquest, known as the Inglimparan Conquest. They seized Hathklosh, leading to their demise.


[1120 BCE]
The Kingdom of Haear eventually collapsed, splitting into two kingdoms, Borusdalis and Veilodin. But when this happened, Inglimpara attacked Borusdalis, destroying it. Refugees fled to Veilodin, while some escaped to east to form Borusdaliandur. Again did Inglimpara strike, perishing the Kingdom of Kiliidhuuk.


[910 BCE]
Borusdaliandur formed a peace treaty with Veilodin. Borusdaliandur was lead by a sorcerer named Borusdagl. Inglimpara tried to attack Veilodin, but were intercepted by Borusdaliandur's army. Inglimpara lost. Borusdaliandur then sent an army to besiege Inglimpara-occupied Kiliidhuuk, defeating the kingdom as revenge.


[900 BCE]
After a long time of planning and preparation, the kingdoms Borusdaliandur and Veilodin were ready for the final Invasion of Inglimpara. They successfully took over Inglimpara and ended the conquest they ran.


[830 BCE]
Shaefklimper rises in the Heirfgrian Forest.


[740 BCE]
A group of earth elementals attacked Borusdaliandur, at a district named Namiam. Ther was a warrior named Hondaf. He was of average height, and his hair was brown. He who lived there took a mace and axe, and defended it. He lost his axe, but was able to destroy most of the elementals before he retreated due to injury, letting the guards and soldiers deal with the rest. He was gifted a star glising, which was named Star Glising of Namiam.

Beliefs: Hondaf is a tall muscular figure with long blond hair. His tomb is cursed by the spirit of himself. See "StoriesAndOtherLiterature/TheLegendOfHondaf.txt"


<First Age of Peace START>


[760 BCE]
Hondaf died a natural death. His body was buried in a memorial along with his Star Glising of Namiam, which was then moved to a tomb. The tomb is now protected by spells (Symbol and Intricate Runic Staves).


<First Age of Peace END>


[680 BCE]
Veilodin collapsed, when a massive disease broke out. It was an incurable disease at it's time. A few hundred people traveled to Borusdaliandur. However, to stop mass migration and potential disease outbreak, Borusdaliandur had artillery to try and kill any immigrants that tried to enter. Almost half of them died to either disease, or the massacre, known as the Veilodin Migration Massacre.


[650 BCE]
Borusdaliandur fell. The people of Veilodin traveled south, to the Taribian desert. They formed an empire, named Zarapib. Zarapib was also led by a sorcerer, named Junas.


[610 BCE]
Junas was assassinated by a group of bandits. Zarapib almost collapsed, but was saved by Haronin using a spear to fend off the bandits. He became a hero right after the bandits fled, and was given the title of emperor.


[550 BCE]
Emperor Haronin died.


[490 BCE]
A group of explorers from Zarapib decided to travel north, to where current day Centruma is. They established a settlement called Grutorus, which would in the future become a village, then town, then kingdom.


[450 BCE]
Zarapib collapsed, and Tarib rose, taking over it's remains.


[360 BCE]
Grutorus fully became a kingdom.


[200 BCE]
Shaefklimper collapsed.

Beliefs: Shaefklimper's collapse (and most of it's reign) is a mystery.


 ^
 |
BCE
~~~~~~~~~~
AD
 |
 v


[Exactly AD 0]
Grutorus collapsed. From the remains of Grutorus, a two new kingdoms rose. Galabrus, and Cantrium. Cantrium was now where current day Cantruma is, and Galabrus was many kilometers northwest of Cantrium.

Beliefs: The King of Grutorus killed himself because of stress.


[AD 30]
An priceless, but recently made artifact, a stone tablet containing a poem in Ancient Grutorian, was made by a scribe of yore. This scribe lived in a forgotten Galabric settlement. But tragedy struck when it was attacked in result of a civil war, and was utterly abandoned. It was only several years after that unfortunate event did they remember this tablet. But when an adventurous group decided to search the ruins of this settlement, they found nothing. A group of fey, one dryad and several centaurs, had already taken the tablet. And that dryad was Lànassil.


[AD 40]
An ideology of retribution sprouted in the Kingdom of Wassatila, quickly taking over. Wassatila is an ancient kingom in Veldalfheimr, inhabited by dryads and centaurs. The idea of this ideology was the Men of Myrkjorðr were destroying nature, and even Talmundur (God of Nature, Storms, and Luck) by burning wood, killing animals, and even go as far to call wizards cultists. There were just a little more fey that followed this ideology than the ones that didn't. The ones that opposed this ideology stayed far away from Wassatila, some even fled to Myrkjorðr.

Lànassil was one of the few that actively opposed it, joining in the local fey military that fought against this. A few years later when they attacked the region she lived in, they killed her tree and stole her tablet. Lànassil then fled to Myrkjorðr spent the rest of her life living in Lantheressil Forest.


[AD 50]
Heirfgria is created. A group of centaurs traveled north.


[AD 55]
The group of travelers settled in what is now Vatakond.


[AD 220]
The centaur settlement transforms into Vatakond.

Cantrium expanded to the east, but due to unfortunate luck (or fortunate?), the eastern settlement became independent. The eastern settlement is now known as Aodesvu.


[AD 350]
Galabrus was destroyed.

Beliefs: The gods destroyed Galabrus who "greatly and mightily" defied them. (really there's no explaination)


[AD 410]
Cantrium went under revolution, becoming current day Centruma.


[Exactly AD 548]
A large group of explorers from a Galabric village traveled up north. It was led by Bentolus, Garaldor, Þungwaz and Muntin.


[Exactly AD 550]
The large group of explorers unknowingly enterd the territory of a large bandit group, who named themselves the Kynnigwaz. During the fighting, Bentolus and Þungwaz was slain. Their bodies were buried in a tomb.

A week later, the remaining group established a new settlement: Thaldranga.


[AD 560]
A group of explorers from Centruma went northwest, and settled a village which they named Middellhallde. Middellhallde eventually became a fortress, and the center of what would become the Kingdom of Rotherland.


[AD 590]
Some explorers from Rotherland wanted to go west to explore the land there. After many days, they established a kingdom in a meadows near the sea.


[AD 600]
Thaldranga became Þalmundrínga. Meanwhile in Rotherland, some explorers traveled up north from Rotherland. They established their kingdom in the taigas, and created Herthland.


[AD 620]
After the King of Wulfscithia passed away, his son inherited the throne. But during the next few years, evil fey corrupted the new king and manipulated him. Then unknowingly, the fey spread propaganda throughout the kingdom to make his people believe other foreigners were possessed by demons.


[AD 640]
From the settlement Þalmundrínga, Fjalland rises.

Beliefs: Jóki was a warrior from the village Hrafandis. He traveled north to explore a tomb, but was met by the draugr Thungwaz. Jóki described Thungwaz as "He looked like a rotting corpse. Big as a bull, pale like the white moon. He had the strength of many men, and appeared and vanished as he pleased." Luckily, Jóki was able to defend himself by throwing rocks at the draugr before making his escape.


<Second Age of Peace START>


[AD 870]
Centaurs were spotted scouting in the forests of Fjalland.


<Second Age of Peace END> 


<RECENT (All below are in exact years)>


[AD 905]
From their seeresses, the Kingdom of Fjalland knew what the fey were trying to do. They struck first, invading the village of Antaragen in Vatakond. They successfully seized it and turned it into an outpost of their own. The kingdom launched another raid, this time on Bravosh.

The kingdom Wulfscithia offered help to Vatakond, who accepted.


[AD 918]
Vatakond attacked Bantusaem of Centruma, a kingdom in the south. But they couldn't get past their defenses and retreated. King Gardorus, the current ruler of Centruma at the time, knew of this, and for revenge, he ordered an attack on Ainattor and destroyed it.


[AD 932]
King Alfþórr of Fjalland dies of old age. His son, Alfþórr the Second, takes his father's place as king. The first thing he did was to launch a military campaign to wipe as many bandit camps as they could in a year. They destroyed around 20 camps, which were about half of all the camps.


[AD 934]
Jeiruld sets up an arcane school in Tarib called the Academy of Aldorim. The academy's main focus is evocation, and now serves as the common training school for Fjallandic war wizards.


[AD 955]
Many years have passed, but now Fjalland is prepared. They began the first invasion on Wulfscithia, but lost the battle. This was the start of the war between Fjalland and Wulfscithia.


[AD 960]
Wulfscithia sent their army up north and attacked the village of Solstunn, Herthland. Solstun was almost ruined, but they were able to recover after many months.


[AD 961]
Fjalland launches another military campaign to wipe bandit camps. This time, only 5 camps were destroyed.


[AD 966]
Okrif of Kjartskjofn dies. Hákon is made the new jarl of Kjartskjofn.


[AD 968]
Fjalland and Herthland sent an army to attack Ealdmandring in Wulfscithia, one of their settlements, and pillaged it.


[AD 972]
Wulfscithia decided to begin their attack on Þuryngard, the capital of Fjalland. But before they could reach the fortress, their army was intercepted by Fjalland's army and quickly fled. At the same time, Vatakond raided Argánlaf, which was half-successful since they pillaged it, not destroyed it.
