Rotherland (Roþþerrlannd)

Government: Feudal Absolute Monarchy
Race Majority: Men
Culture type: Rotherlandic
Population: ~28,000 in total

Main language: Rotherlandic (Roþþerrlanndicc)
Other languages: Fjallandic
Main Writing System: Rotherlandic Runes (Its just Futhork, aka Medieval runes. Don't mistaken for Futhorc, aka Anglo-Saxon runes.)

Ruler: King Bælddhelmmerr

Important villages:
	Riverrtunn

Cities:
	Middellhallde



[[MIDDELLHALLDE]]
Middellhallde is a wooden ring fortress built atop a hill, which is surrounded by a beech and birch forest.



[[HIERARCHY]]
The hierarchy of Rotherland is extremely similar to the hierarchy of Fjalland. It is, from the highest to lowest, king, earl, thane, knight, free men, then slave.

A earl would live in each ring fortress, and will oversee the ring fortress and their settlements, such as trade or wellbeing, and has power over them to make sure all goes well. A thane would live in each settlement.

Earls are able to rally troops, enforce laws, build in settlements, or even carry out an execution. Thanes are also able to do such things, but are limited to the settlement they have power over.

Earls are able to assign new thanes in the settlements they have control over, but both powers including thanes cannot step down themselves and instead must arrange this with a higher authority.

Knights are usually the sons of earls or thanes. They are of course dressed in better armor than the average population. When someone with authority dies and he has no son or cousin, one of his knights will become the new heir until a higher authority can find a suitable heir.

Most slaves are either prisoners of war or convicted criminals serving public service for the king, a earl, or a thane. Servants are more of a job, which can take the place of a slave. The advantages servants have over slaves is that they are treated less harshly, they earn money, and their labor isn't forced, meaning they can leave anytime. However if a slave is found to take the place of a servant, the servant will be dismissed.

Hierarchies and social classes are mostly family based, but if a family is unable to continue it's legacy (no other male heirs) or the family's heir abuses their power, the family can can lose power in favor for another family.



[[TRADE]]
Rotherland mainly exports ores, such as iron and silver. They mostly trade with Centruma and Fjalland.



[[MILITARY]]
Rotherland has about 1000 men in their army, and each village has around 10 guards.



[[LORE, RELIGION, STRUCTURE, ETC]]
Please refer to AldraheimrDescription.txt, AldraheimrHistory.txt, Cosmology.txt, and Cultures/Rotherlandic.txt for more information on it's lore, religion, structure, and others.
