Alfrir

Male
Age: 20 (Born in August 17, 952)
Alignment: Neutral

Homeland:  Álahringr, Oddarsveldi
Race:      Human

Father:    Algord
Mother:    Mifrún
Brothers:  Ulfnir, Ljörn
Sister:    Yngvild

Grandfather: Haldigr III (passed away), Bjoll (passed away)
Grandmother: Elfreida, Amja (passed away)

Uncles:    Fraldr, Mægnod II
Aunt:      Anru
Cousins:   Lalfrel, Gorðr, Ærínd



Alfrir is a human born in Álahringr.

He can be found at his house either checking his family's farm for weeds, practicing spears with Ulfnir, or playing Rægatafl with someone (probably with Ljörn). Sometimes he's in the forest with Ulfnir felling trees, or accompanying Ljörn for local exploration. 



[[APPEARANCE]]
Alfrir has fair skin which is slightly tanned, dark blue eyes, brown hair that goes all the way down to his armpits, and a stubble.

He wears a blue woolen cap with green accents, dark blue shawl, a maille hauberk, a dark green tunic, and a pair of brown pants. He has a pouch and a bearded axe on his belt, a 12 inch long seax, and he wears boots on his feet. He wears an iron Talmundúr amulet. He is 173 (5'8) centimeters tall.

He wears a maille-less Gjermundbu helmet in combat. He has a spear, and a white round shield with a black symbol (Helm of Awe) painted on it.



[[PERSONALITY]]
Alfrir can be described as a competitive warrior. He is also impulsive, sometimes not thinking before acting out. He is also mindful of his surroundings, and is careful not to knock anything over or do anything clumsy. However, he can show cowardice to the unknown, to people with much more fighting power, or people with greater political power.



[[ABILITIES]]
[Physicality]
Alfrir has combat experience from raiding a castle ruins, fighting against couple of draugar. This raiding was with his brother Ljörn, and two other people (Baulnir and Elkfriða).

He has six years worth of spear fighting practice, and makes him above average in combat with his spear. He usually likes to fight safely by keeping a distance with his shield in front of him, waiting for an opening to strike.

[Language]
Alfrir can only speak Oddarish. Sometimes he can pick up small hints from a Centrumic conversation due to familiarity and similarly, but can also lead to misunderstanding.

[Rægatafl]
Alfrir knows how to play Rægatafl.
