Ljörn

Male
Age: 25 (Born in December 2, 947)
Alignment: Neutral Good

Homeland:  Argánlaf, Fjalland
Race:      Human

Lover:     Rúna

Father:    Algord
Mother:    Mifrún
Brothers:  Ulfnir, Alfrir
Sister:    Yngvild

Grandfather: Haldigr III (passed away), Bjoll (passed away)
Grandmother: Elfreida, Amja (passed away)

Uncles:    Fraldr, Mægnod II
Aunt:      Anru
Cousins:   Lalfrel, Gorðr, Ærínd



[[DESCRIPTION]]
Ljörn is a warrior who sometimes utilizes galdrastafir and potions. He stands at 5'9" and has an average build for a warrior. His long hair is dark blond with gentle but messy waves and a little longer than shoulder length. He has a light stubble and fair skin. Oftentimes, his hair is pulled back, then secured by a cloth strip that he tied around his head. His eyes are hooded, downturned, and dark pale blue, making him seem sad or tired to many people.

When Ljörn is outside, he dons a woolen brown cloak to keep himself warm and dry. Casually, he wears a muted blue tunic, brown pants, a belt, and leather boots. He has a baldric carrying a scabbard with a Petersen Type L sword (5-lobed Viking sword). On his belt, he has a leather pouch and a small seax under the sword baldric. He wears a necklace of an iron Talmundúr amulet.

When he travels or prepares for combat, Ljörn puts on a nasal helmet and his byrnie, and he equips himself with his spear and round shield. He will also carry a thin grimoire (about thirty pages) that has stave-drawing and potion-brewing instructions and a piece of coal in the pouch.

When at work, Ljörn can be found at his house chopping firewood, checking his family's farm for weeds, or helping Alfrir and Ulfnir carry wood they felled back to their home. In his free time, he would play Plattrægnall with someone (probably with Alfrir), or go into the forest to explore and collect potion herbs.



[[PERSONALITY]]
Ljörn is reserved and slightly introverted. He doesn't speak much and prefers quiet and solitary areas, but he doesn't mind public spaces (or even crowded places). When he talks to strangers, he might make things awkward but otherwise, he tries to be polite, especially to his elders or higher-ups. He also has a good survival instinct, which was shown during Ingwaz's attack.

Ljörn is stubborn. Sometimes, he won't change his mind after making a decision. He has slight paranoia, which is most prominent when he's inside deep forests. He got this paranoia after seeing a draugr lurking in the nearby forest when he was 10 years old, and it strengthened later after encountering the gvarth during his trip to the castle ruin.

Sometimes, Ljörn acts uncaring and unassertive since he usually doesn't involve himself in things that don't concern him. For example, if a thief stole something from someone he doesn't know, he'll ignore the commotion.

To people he's warmed up to, like his family or Rúna, he is loyal and more emotional than usual. His uncaringness also goes away, replaced with kindheartedness. But towards Rúna, Ljörn is a little soft-spoken and feels a degree of protectiveness for her from outside threats, especially situations he would perceive as similar to the centaur raid that happened just a few months prior. He expresses his love by doing things for her and spending time with her. Sometimes, he likes to hold hands. Despite this more emotional side, Ljörn is still slightly introverted.

Ljörn speaks Centrumic (English) weirdly. Not only does he have a strong Fjallandic accent, but he speaks Centrumic using the grammar of his native tongue. When he gets frustrated, he quietly uses strong language under his breath, but he doesn't use extreme insults or belittling.

Ljörn's favorite food is venison. He keeps a small bag of dried strips in his pouch for later. For some reason, his second favorite food is dried, hard bread with the crust. He says it's because it's chewy.



[[ABILITIES]]
[Physicality]
Ljörn fights with a spear and shield, and his combat abilities with weapons are slightly above average. He knows Glíma and learned how to do basic blocks, strikes, and disarms. He has combat experience from a previous adventure to an old castle ruins, where he fought a couple of draugar. But because he was shot in the shoulder with an arrow during a centaur raid, his left arm was weakened.

[Grimoire]
Ljörn has access to magical staves and potion recipes because of his grimoire. He usually has the grimoire open while he draws a stave or brews a potion because he doesn't bother to memorize them. He doesn't draw staves during combat for obvious reasons.

[Language]
Ljörn's native language is Fjallandic, but he can also speak Heorthlandic. He can kinda speak Centrumic (English), but he's very bad at it (see personality).

[Games]
Ljörn knows how to play Plattrægnall, a local board game.



[[GRIMOIRE]]
	Potions:
		Bastard's Poison
		Calming Salve
		Concealment Potion
		Curing Tonic
		Fire-throwing Grenade
		Nontoxic Seizure Concoction
		Regenerative Salve
		Silencing Potion
		Sparkfire Potion

	Staves:
		Gapaldur
		Vegvisir
		Toustefna

	Intricate Staves:
		Ægishjalmur
		Repel Demons
		Lesser Hagall
		Veldismagn


[[GOAL]]
"I thinks of a fame or some grípir will well to fit me. Yet in now, I just want a normal aldr. I will to protect mine family and Rúna. Yet if needed, I will to slay."

"Ek leim am stræka ór summ grípir mun vel at ar nýtr fyrir minn. Ænn í núna, ek ötti vil nidd aldu. Ek vil at vurða minn heimmandar ok Rúna. Ænn ef ek skolu, ek vil at slá."
