Meyrúna

Female
Age: 20 (Born in March 14, 953)
Alignment: Neutral Good

Homeland:  Argánlaf, Fjalland
Race:      Human

Father:    Njall
Mother:    Þone

Grandfather: Dageski
Grandmother: Sifind (passed away)



[[DESCRIPTION]]
Meyrúna is a woodcarver who carves small things for her father to sell at the local marketplace. She is slim and curvaceous, and her height is 5' 4". She has long, light brown hair that is wavy and flows freely. Her eyes are large and pale green, and her skin is pale with a slight reddish hue with some freckles on her face.

When she is outside, she tends to wear a dark yellow woolen cloak with a slightly frayed edge, held by a double-brooch with chain. She casually wears a simple muted blue dress, a braided leather ring belt, and leather shoes. On her belt there is a small seax in it's sheath for defense. She wears a necklace with an iron Talmundúr amulet.

Meyrúna is friends with Ljorn and Yngvild, she met both of them from childhood. She can usually be found in her home making wood carvings, or by the river.



[[PERSONALITY]]
Meyrúna is slightly introverted, preferring to be in places where there aren't much people she doesn't know. Most times Meyrúna is unassertive, shown when she would avoid conflict by not associating herself with it. To people who is emotionally close (friends, family, etc), she is calm and pleasant.

Meyrúna has a crush on Ljorn, but he doesn't know this. She's afraid she'll get rejected, so she tries not to bring it up in front of him. If she interprets Ljorn's actions as advancing, she might blush even if she's alone. She tries to avoid Hjalvir due to his arrogant and argumentative personality and might feel small when in the presence of Hersir Randúlfr.

Meyrúna likes to eat a stew of chicken and local spices.



[[ABILITIES]]
Since Meyrúna is a woodcarver, she can carve small things. She can play the lyre, however she isn't brave enough to play it in the presence of strangers. She practices herbology too, and can identify many common herbs in the Northern region. She also knows how to brew  She took an interest in carving wood and could turn it into things like spoons and small figurines to gift to other people.

Meyrúna can only speak Fjallandic fluently, but she has a minor understanding of Esrel and can speak it if she reads from a script or practices a sentence. She can also read and write them, but only in Fjallandic runes.


