Rúna

Female
Age: 22 (Born in March 14, 951)
Alignment: Neutral Good

Homeland:  Álahringr, Oddarsveldi
Race:      Human

Lover:     Ljörn

Father:    Njall
Mother:    Þone

Grandfather: Dageski
Grandmother: Sifind (passed away)



Rúna is a woodcarver who carves small things for her father to sell at the local marketplace. Rúna is friends Yngvild, who she met from childhood.

Rúna can usually be found in her home making wood carvings, and would sometimes would accompany Ljörn into the forest to explore and collect herbs.



[[APPEARANCE]]
Rúna is slim and slightly curvaceous, and her height is 5'4". She has long, armpit-length, light brown hair that is wavy and flows freely. Her almond eyes are large and pale green, and her skin is pale with a slight reddish hue, with soft freckles scattered across her face.

When she is outside, she tends to wear a dark yellow woolen cloak with a slightly frayed edge, held by a bronze double brooch with a chain. She casually wears a simple, muted blue calf-length tunic, a braided leather ring belt, and leather shoes. On her belt, there is a small sheathed seax for defense. She wears a necklace with an iron Talmundúr amulet. She owns a short spear (with a sling), which she carries only when she goes into the forest.



[[PERSONALITY]]
Rúna is slightly introverted. She is bashful, easily flustered, and sometimes averts her eyes when talking to people she doesn't know well. But despite these traits, she isn't shy.

Rúna has a small degree of perfectionism. However, her perfectionism isn't the "everything must be tidy" way. It's when she sometimes worries if she's done anything wrong almost immediately after she does something. This comes from the first time Njall decided to sell one of her carvings, the buyer returned it and complained that it wasn't worth anything because it wasn't symmetrical.

Sometimes when not doing anything or listening to someone talk, Rúna would space out and start wondering about random things.

Rúna's favorite food is roasted potatoes, especially those with salt. When she's nervous, she fidgets with the hem of her clothing.

Secret: Sometime in the past, when Dagnir was playing a jest on Rúna, he showed her a piece of paper on how to draw Veldismagn. Rúna felt uncomfortable by how it was made, but she still hadn't forgotten it. Despite feeling uncomfortable, sometimes, she would use pig blood to draw them for protection.



[[ABILITIES]]
[Arts and Crafts]
Since Rúna is a woodcarver, she can carve small things such as spoons and animal figurines. She can play the lyre, however, she isn't brave enough to play it in the presence of strangers. She is also a herbalist and can identify many common herbs that grow in the north.

[Physicality]
Even though Rúna has a spear, she can't use it well. She only knows how to thrust or hold something down once the spearhead gets in, mainly for defense against wild animals.

[Language]
Rúna is only fluent in Northmannish, as it's her native language. She has a minor understanding of Heorthlandic and can speak it if she reads from a script or practices a sentence. She can also read and write them in Northmannish runes.

[Veldismagn]
Rúna knows how to draw Veldismagn.



[[GOAL]]
"Ek vil at gera égvafus selingkónu. Ænn ek... ek vot eigi hvótasl."
((English: "I want to be a successful merchant. Yet I... I don't know how."))
