Lare off Honndaff

Nu, icc shall tellenn þi an ald spell, passedd to suness fra fæderress, to ferennerress illke. And maniȝ ferennerress knowweþþ tiss spell wel, swa remembre þiss wel ekedd, forrþi an daȝȝ mihhte wurrþenn þatt tu findesst tu arrt att hiss tommbe. And siþþenn þe trowwþe was lessedd, icc maȝȝ tellenn þi onnliȝ min wiss, ȝet to wot iss bettre þenn to wot ne. Swa hedennliȝ lisstenn:

I ȝorr, i þassanndess ȝeress off ȝorr, Nammȝamm an tunn was ferr i þe sowwþe, whær þe snaww falleþþ ne, and whær menn beldedd walless wiþþ limmstonness. An mann nemmnedd Honndaff livvedd i þiss tunn. He was tatt off strongg and beredd hærr off goldd, ȝet he hadde nan fammess. Swa an weppmann he was, an mass and warræx he aȝhedd.

Siþe, fra æsste land an flocc off ærdȝeottenness assaȝȝledd Nammȝamm. Swa wiþþ mass and warræx hiss, bælddliȝ he læppedd till þemm and clewedd hiss warræx i þe firrste. Wiþþ mass hiss he smatt aness hedd off, swa itt was slew and crimmedd to brutte ærdess, illke neverr cwikk. Þa he bowwedd and flæh an smitenn, þa he strehhtliȝ stod and smatt aness bowwelless biforenn itt maȝȝ swinngenn aȝȝ. Ȝet forr hiss unnlucc, biforenn he maȝȝedd slewenn all þemm, an off þe flocc hewedd hiss legg. Forrþi he flæh þemm, wiþþ onnliȝ twa ȝeotenness to remaȝȝne, and lætennde þe oþerr off wacchess to killenn þe remaȝȝness.

Forr hiss dedess, þeȝȝr laferrd off hiss tunn sene himm wurrþi an mass tatt teȝȝ ȝarrkedd Sterrlik Glissinggmass off Nammȝamm. And fra þatt laferrd he wast ȝæfedd an helmm and hawberrk ekedd. Nu, he iss dæde, settenn i hiss cattacummbass off stonness tilless, hu þe laferrd off Nammȝamm badd teȝȝr belderress to makenn. Till nu, hiss wæpeness leȝȝeþþ still i tommbe hiss, and spelless ȝarrke þatt teos still shinennde illke wære clænsedd, and tatt hiss gast hafe ben reȝȝsedd to currsenn hiss dwellennde, and to currsenn all þatt wollde darenn to ennturr þatt.

---

Nar, ek skolu á fabba þik un aldr laga, hwer foðar sékuð fyrir þaumins sonars, ok fyrir reysmandar. Ok maf reysmandar væna þessi laga upp jóm, os þrokðu þessi upp jóm mét, fnú þessi un dagr hjann á arast hwer þú mun á sve oð þú ar á brífir oð seini kurndrinskrend. Ok fnú þessi trúslingr oð sin ar kel, ek œtti hjann á séku þik minn wysi, hæl á væna ar jómurt ænnun á væna eigi. Afalau þessi, hwyrta mik:

Í vaman gúlni, í aldr oð pjallar gúlni, Namjamm var ríngu í þaf oð hrófir, í satumir hwer snóskar mult eigi á dúrta, ok í satumir hwer mandar mult á byggja límskórr vekir. Un mandr hwer geiðað Hondaf hlímið í þessi ríngu. Sin ar sterkr ok myrtað þrófn oð yð, hæl sin hafað eigi hjalva. Os vánðr sin var, un grúll ok hálarauxr sin gértið.

Í mænagi, un kjarti oð sot skjalavir hreipnað Namjamm, hwer farað fnú austr. Os upp seini grúll ok hilðkog, sein mæstúgti hapastað tæn át un ok sjarvað í fyrstu un upp seini hálarauxr. Með seini hálarauxr, sin stogvað þaðrins hófan tæn af, os það molnað tæn nidd sotskluppar, osk það núaldr ljaupað. Hran sin fóduð un blofðaningr, hran sin vorkað ok stogvað ettir uns abban í próðan það hjann avíu á blofða. Hæl fnú þessi seini prá var þort, próðan sin hjann á slá auð þaust, sin bað feikað á seini lúga oð un þaumins. Os sin bleifðað þaum, með tvúr márlvóðar hwer tafsir, hwer sin barað þau lókkmandar fyrir á slá.

Afalau seini verkar, þet júrr oð Namjamm jafið sin un grúll hwer þau geiðað Stœgisgrúll oð Namjamm. Sin bað kjofað un klídserkr ok hjálmr mét. Í nar, sin ar dæran í seini kurndr fnú skórramjortar, hwer þet júrr boðen seini byggjamandar fyrir á gera. Hæl nar, randar mun á fabba oð Hondafs vapanar vigl setjaun í seini kurndr osk þaust ar vigl slefu, ok sin rausað fnú dæra os draugr, fyrir á blá seini hlímingr ok auð mandar hwer mun á karð á fara tæn í seini hlímingr.

---

"Now, I shall tell you an old tale, passed from fathers to sons, to travelers alike. And many travelers know this well, so remember this well too, for a day may come that you find yourself at his tomb. And since the truth is lost, I can only tell you what I know, yet to know is better than to not know. So listen carefully:"

"In a time long past, thousands of years ago, there was a town called Namiam in the far south, where the snow doesn't fall, and where men built limestone walls. A man named Hondaf lived in this town. He was strong and had hair of gold, yet he had no fame. Because he was a warrior, he wielded a mace and a war axe."

"Once, a band of earth elementals (or earth-giants, as they called them) attacked Namiam from the western lands. So with his mace and war axe, he boldly leapt onto the first and cleaved it down with his axe. With his mace, he smashed the head off another, and so it was slain and crumbled into dull earth like it was never alive. Then he ducked and dodged a blow, then he spun around and struck another on it's stomach before it could swing again. Yet unfortunately for him, before he could kill them all, they hewed his leg. He fled from them, with only two remaining, and leaving the rest to be killed by the guards."

"For his deeds, the lord of his town saw him worthy of a mace named Star Glising of Namiam. And from that lord he was also given a helmet and a hauberk. Now, he is dead, buried inside his tomb of stone, who his lord requested their builders to make. Until now, his weapons still lay within his tomb, and rumors say that they still shine as if clean, and that his ghost rose to curse his own tomb, and to curse to all who dare enter."
